= chihuahua

Chihuahua is a simple feature flagging gem for use in Rails. Enabled features are stored in a yaml file. Feature sets are configured per environment.

= Configuration

Add this line to app/assets/javascripts/application.js

    //= require chihuahua

Or if you have application.js.coffee then make it:

    #= require chihuahua


Create the file config/chihuahua.yml with your environments and enabled features:

    # Chiuhuahua  expects 1 level of environment keys and beneath each, an array of features
    # that are to be enabled. Array elements start with a dash.
    production:
      - cool_feature
      
    staging:
      - cool_feature
    
    alpha:
      - cool_feature
      - upcoming_feature
    
    development:
      - cool_feature
      - upcoming_feature
      - the_bleeding_edge
    
    test: #best practice is to specify the feature-state in your test rather than here.

If you use cucumber, add this to your step definitions

    Given /^the (.*) feature is (en|dis)abled$/ do |nickname, abled|
      Chihuahua.set(nickname, 'en' == abled)
    end

== Usage

Chihuahua gives you a feature? method in views and controllers.

In your views:

    <% if feature?(:cool_feature) %>
      I'm cool!
    <% else %>
      I'm lame.
    <% end %>

In your controllers:

    def index
      return render(:text => 'Feature not enabled.', :status => 404) unless feature?(:cool_feature)

And a showFeature() function in your javascript:

    if showFeature('cool_feature') {
      console.info('cool!');
    } else {
      console.info('lame.');
    }

In your cucumber tests:

    Given the the_bleeding_edge feature is enabled
    When I visit the home page
    Then I see "I'm cool!"

In your other tests you can turn features on and off like so:

    describe 'index page' do
      before :all do
        Chihuahua.enable(:cool_feature)
      end

== Contributing to chihuahua
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Dave Miller. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.